#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass report
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{tikz}
\usepackage[europeanresistors,americaninductors]{circuitikz}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 0
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plainnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Introduction
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "cha:introduction"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The AC electricity grid was developed at the end of the XIX century, and
 basically remained very similar till our days.
 Many techniques and models that were developed in order to analyze and
 design the grid and its components are based on assumptions and methods,
 which were driven by experience and observations 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "sauerPai1998"

\end_inset

.
 In recent years, there is a trend of increasing use of renewable energy,
 which requires the conversion of the energy in order to interface with
 the power grid.
 When the rate of the converted energy will become a significant part, it
 is not clear whether the traditional models and methods for controling
 the power grid will succeed to control it 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "ZhongWeiss2011,monshizadehDePersisMonshizadehVanderSchaft2016"

\end_inset

.
 Therefore, there is increasing interest in the fundamental mathematical
 models of the electrical grid.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Synchronous generator (SG) are the main power source of the electricity
 grid.
 The mathematical model of a SG is very complex and difficult to use.
 This makes the electric grid such a complicated nonlinear and time-varying
 system that any attempt to prove its stability analytically is hopeless.
 Stability analysis is usually done by simulation, or analytically on simplified
 models, in which the SGs are connected in a simple network and each SG
 is represented by reduced order equations, see for instance 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "DorflerAndBullo2012"

\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "PorcoDorflerBullo2013"

\end_inset

.
 The reduced model of a SG is often obtained by treating the stator currents
 as fast variables, thus eliminating them from the state variables via the
 singular perturbation approach (see, for instance, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "KhalilSingularPertubations"

\end_inset

) and keeping only the rotor angle, and the rotor angular velocity as relevant
 state variables, see for instance 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "kundur1994"

\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "sauerPai1998"

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
SGs has the important property that once they synchronizes, means that their
 rotors spin with the same velocity, they tend to remain synchronized even
 without any control.
 This property is important because the electricity grid must maintain constant
 frequency, and because the ability of a SG to transfer constant power trow
 the grid exists only when the phase difference between each SG and the
 grid phase is fixed.
 Thats why it is desirable to know if for a given grid which contains SGs
 and a loads,all the SGs and tend to synchronize and if the grid frequency
 remains fix.
 In order to use the control stability analysis, and because the trajectory
 of the state of a SG in the steady state is sinusoidal, it is common to
 use transformation of the voltages and currents that maps sinusoidal trajectory
 into a constant point on the state plan.
 The famous Park's transformation performs that, so after applying park
 transformation on the SG model, This question became to be a stability
 question.
 This property is know as frequency stability.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this work, I study two simple grid configurations: Single SG that connected
 to an infinite bus, and Two SG in parallel and load.
 chapter 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "cha:microgrid_dynamics"

\end_inset

 will discuss the dynamical model for the above configurations.
 chapter 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "cha:equivalence_pont"

\end_inset

 discuss the necessary condition to have equilibrium point at the infinite
 bus configuration, and shows that micogrid comprised of two SGs can have
 equilibrium point only on the synchronization manifold, and that there
 is at list one such equilibrium point.
 chapter 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "cha:Model_reduction"

\end_inset

 shows that the simplified model which known as the improved swing equation
 can't predict behavior that 4th order model predicts.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "monshizadehDePersisMonshizadehVanderSchaft2016"

\end_inset

 showed, that the improved swing equation model predicts behavior that the
 classical model (the swing equation model) can't predict.
 Chapter 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "cha:Synchronization"

\end_inset

, shows that a microgrid that comprised of two SGs, is stable near the manifold
 of synchronization.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
